# Python Support in Djinni

Python support in Djinni is experimental, but ready to try out.  It can generate code for bridging C++ with Python 3.

For more information, you can check out our talk from CppCon 2015.  [Slides](https://bit.ly/djinnitalk2) and [video](https://bit.ly/djinnivideo2) are avilable online.

## Generated Code

When bridging to Python, Djinni generates 4 types of output:

* `python` Generated Python classes and proxies for interacting with C++ via [CFFI](https://cffi.readthedocs.org/).
* `cffi` Python code run at build time to create a Python extension out of the C++ code.
* `cwrapper` A C interface implemented in C++ to allowing Python to interact with C++ classes.
* `cpp` The same C++ classes generated for all other Djinni languages.

## Pre-requisites

Djinni generates code which should work with Python 3.  Python support has only been tested on macOS with the clang compiler.  ~~It's been designed to work on any platform, and the known issues are in the build scripts rather than the generated code itself.~~ _(We're now using CMake to build all bindings but it still requires testing in platforms other than macOS.)_

The Python support generated by Djinni makes use of a few non-default Python extensions, as does the test suite.  You can install them as follows:

```
  sudo pip3 install cffi
  sudo pip3 install future
  sudo pip3 install pytest
```

## Test Suite

Because of the known limitations described below, the Python test suite does not use all of the same inputs as the other languages.  As a result, you'll see a separate `pycpp` directory in generated-src.  This contains output of the standard C++ generator, but for the specific input files used by the Python test suite.

## Known limitations

* Proxy caching is not yet implemented.  In addition to some inefficiency, this means that the same object passed across the language boundary twice is not guaranteed to appear as a single object on the other side.
* External types defined in YAML are not yet supported.
* The support library code makes direct reference to <optional> types rather than respecting the command-line choice of a different optional library.
* Use of non-nullable pointers is not yet supported.
* There are no arguments for configurable header prefixes (or use of existing arguments).  All includes are unqualified.

